

Software
Hardware
SECTION 2.7 NETWORK ARCHITECTURE AND THE OSI REFERENCE MODEL 67
Application (7)
Provides user-application services and
procedures
Presentation (6)
Structures data in a mutually agreed
Application or
format: concerned with issues such as how Service-Oriented to code and format data; includes data
encryption Session (5)
Controls process communications; responsible for segmenting, buffering, and synchronization
Transport (4)
Provides end-to-end control; responsible for partitioning and reassembling messages
Network (3)
Provides routing services for transferring data across the network; performs network management, packet formatting
Data Link (2)
Organizes data into frames; provides flow initialization, flow control, link termination,
and error control
Physical (1)
Transfers bits across link, defines physical
characteristics of media
Layers
Delivery and
Verification Services
Communication or Network- Oriented Layers
FIGURE 2.16 Another view of the OSI layers. Source: adapted from Conrad, 1988b.
rovide additional information about OSI layers. (For readers who want to compare the OSI model to the TCP/IP model, see Figures 8.8, 8.9, and 8.10.)
SI Service Types
There are two different types of services OSI layers provide: connection-oriented and onnectionless. Some layers also include multiplexing as an additional service, but this oes not necessarily transcend all layers of the architecture. Services are available at rvice access points (SAPS), with each SAP having a corresponding address.
onnection-Oriented Service This type of service implies that prior to the transfer data a physical (and virtual) link is established between the sending and receiving des. This link remains in effect for the duration of the session. After the session is mpleted, the link is removed. Characteristics of a connection-oriented service in- ade: wasted bandwidth, because the link must remain established even during idle pe- ds of a transmission: a high potential for a hung network, since there is always a sibility that a link will not be terminated; and (on the bright side) guaranteed sequential